CONTRIBUTING.adoc, before:

= Contributing

This document contains development information. It's expected that all
contributors read this documentation in its entirety before contributing to
this plugin.

== Requirements

* https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer[Packer] - To run the plugin binary. Use
the latest stable version of Packer.
* https://go.dev/[Go] - To build the plugin binary. Use the version of Go specified in `go.mod`.

== Building the Plugin

There are two make targets to build the plugin.

. `make dev` will build the plugin binary as `packer-plugin-oxide`
at the root of the repository and install the plugin binary into
the local Packer plugins directory using `packer plugins install`.
There is no need to run `packer init` after running this make
target. Simply run `packer build` with the desired template. See
https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-scaffolding/issues/92#issuecomment-2881301902[hashicorp/packer-plugin-scaffolding#92 (comment)]
for more information on how Packer loads development plugin binaries.

. `make build` will build the plugin binary as `packer-plugin-oxide` at the root
of the repository.

== Creating a Component

A Packer plugin must contain one or more components. Valid components are
https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/plugins/creation/custom-builders[builders],
https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/plugins/creation/custom-datasources[data sources],
https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/plugins/creation/custom-post-processors[post-processors], and
https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/plugins/creation/custom-provisioners[provisioners].

This Packer plugin structures components as Go packages using the
`components/COMPONENT/NAME` naming convention.

[source,txt]
----
.
└── component
    ├── builder
    │   └── instance
    └── data-source
        └── image
----

Once you've decided on a component go ahead and create its Go package.

[source,sh]
----
mkdir -p component/builder/instance
----

Then implement the interface for the component.

`component/builder/instance/builder.go`
[source,go]
----
package instance

import (
        "context"
        "github.com/hashicorp/hcl/v2/hcldec"
        "github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/packer"
)

var _ packer.Builder = (*Builder)(nil)

type Builder struct{}

func (b *Builder) ConfigSpec() hcldec.ObjectSpec {}

func (b *Builder) Prepare(args ...any) ([]string, []string, error) {}

func (b *Builder) Run(ctx context.Context, ui packer.Ui, hook packer.Hook) (packer.Artifact, error) {}
----

=== Registering a Component

Components must be registered within the Packer plugin before they can be used.

Register a component with a specific name.

`main.go`
[source,go]
----
pluginSet.RegisterBuilder("instance", new(instance.Builder))
----

Do not use `plugin.DEFAULT_NAME` to register a component. Doing so will use
the name `oxide` for the component which is not descriptive enough to describe
the component.

//go:generate packer-sdc mapstructure-to-hcl2 -type Config

=== Generating Component Code

Structs within a component can be configured to generate code to retrieve its
`hcldec.ObjectSpec` using `mapstructure` field tags.

[source,go]
----
type Config struct {
	Name string `mapstructure:"name" required:"true"`
}
----

With the struct tags in place, add the following `go:generate` directive to the
top of the file, below the license text but above the package declaration.

[source,go]
----
//go:generate packer-sdc mapstructure-to-hcl2 -type Config
----

Then run `make generate` to generate the necessary `*.hcl2spec.go` files.

== Describing the Plugin

The plugin binary is not meant to be executed directly. However, there's a
`describe` subcommand that can be used to gather information that's useful
during troubleshooting.

[source,sh]
----
> ./packer-plugin-oxide describe
{
  "version": "0.1.0-dev",
  "sdk_version": "0.6.1",
  "api_version": "x5.0",
  "builders": [
    "instance"
  ],
  "post_processors": [],
  "provisioners": [],
  "datasources": [
    "image"
  ],
  "protocol_version": "v2"
}
----

== Writing Documentation 

Documentation for the plugin and its components is generated from the Markdown
files located in `docs`.

[source,sh]
----
.
└── docs
    ├── builders
    │   └── instance.mdx
    ├── datasources
    │   └── image.mdx
    └── README.md
----

The `docs/README.md` file is the main documentation for the plugin that will
be displayed on its Packer integrations page. Nested directories document each
component.

Within a Markdown file, you might see an `@include` directive. This directive
will pull in content from documentation partials.

[source,txt]
----
@include 'component/builder/instance/Builder.mdx'
----

Documentation partials are generated from Go doc comments on exported types.
The most important exported types to document are the types that implement
component interfaces and the `Config` type, if any.

Add the following `go:generate` directive at the top of any file with exported
types that need to be documented, below the license text but above the package
declaration.

[source,go]
----
//go:generate packer-sdc struct-markdown
----

Then run `make generate` to generate both the `doc-partials` and `.web-docs`
content.

[source,sh]
----
.
├── docs-partials
│   └── component
│       ├── builder
│       │   └── instance
│       │       ├── Builder.mdx
│       │       ├── Config.mdx
│       │       ├── Config-not-required.mdx
│       │       └── Config-required.mdx
│       └── data-source
│           └── image
│               ├── Config.mdx
│               ├── Config-not-required.mdx
│               ├── Config-required.mdx
│               ├── Datasource.mdx
│               └── DatasourceOutput.mdx
└── .web-docs
    ├── components
    │   ├── builder
    │   │   └── instance
    │   │       └── README.md
    │   └── data-source
    │       └── image
    │           └── README.md
    ├── metadata.hcl
    ├── README.md
    └── scripts
        └── compile-to-webdocs.sh
----

The `.web-docs` directory contains the documentation that will be shown on the
Packer integrations page for this plugin. You'll notice its structure matches
the structure of `docs`. The `metadata.hcl` file within describes the plugin and
must be updated when components are added or removed.

=== Documenting Data Source Outputs

The output type for a data source component must be named `DatasourceOutput`
to ensure its documentation partial is correctly generated. This is because
the Packer plugin SDK treats a type named `DatasourceOutput` specially as seen
in the
https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/blob/7a5a8ab49a63aab6ecd6c54ba71c8e0edb531cf8/cmd/packer-sdc/internal/struct-markdown/struct_markdown.go#L183-L186[source code].

== Running Tests

There are two make targets to run tests for the plugin.

. `make test` will run unit tests.

. `make testacc` will run the acceptance tests. These tests require access to
Oxide and will generally require other `OXIDE_*` make variables. The tests will
log which variables are required and document which resources are dependencies.

== Releasing the Plugin

. Choose the commit that's to be released.

. Create a Git tag in the format `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`. This tag should match the
value of `main.Version` for the commit that was chosen.

. Push the Git tag to the remote.

. Monitor the `Release` GitHub Actions workflow to ensure the plugin has been
successfully built and released.

. Update the release notes for the release.

. Checkout the release tag and push the following changes in a new commit.

.. Update the `main.Version` value in `main.go`.

.. Update the `version = ">= X.Y.Z"` version constraint in `docs/README.md`, and
`example/template.pkr.hcl` to use the newly released tag, if semantically newer
than the current tag.

.. Run `make generate` to generate updated documentation.

. Checkout the default branch and push the following changes in a new pull
request.

.. Update the `main.Version` value in `main.go` to the next development version.

.. Update the `version = ">= X.Y.Z"` version constraint in `docs/README.md`, and
`example/template.pkr.hcl` to the next development version.

.. Run `make generate` to generate updated documentation.

Commit message:

misc: update release process (#66)
Updated the release process documentation.

CONTRIBUTING.adoc, after:

= Contributing

This document contains development information. It's expected that all
contributors read this documentation in its entirety before contributing to
this plugin.

== Requirements

* https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer[Packer] - To run the plugin binary. Use
the latest stable version of Packer.
* https://go.dev/[Go] - To build the plugin binary. Use the version of Go specified in `go.mod`.

== Building the Plugin

There are two make targets to build the plugin.

. `make dev` will build the plugin binary as `packer-plugin-oxide`
at the root of the repository and install the plugin binary into
the local Packer plugins directory using `packer plugins install`.
There is no need to run `packer init` after running this make
target. Simply run `packer build` with the desired template. See
https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-scaffolding/issues/92#issuecomment-2881301902[hashicorp/packer-plugin-scaffolding#92 (comment)]
for more information on how Packer loads development plugin binaries.

. `make build` will build the plugin binary as `packer-plugin-oxide` at the root
of the repository.

== Creating a Component

A Packer plugin must contain one or more components. Valid components are
https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/plugins/creation/custom-builders[builders],
https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/plugins/creation/custom-datasources[data sources],
https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/plugins/creation/custom-post-processors[post-processors], and
https://developer.hashicorp.com/packer/docs/plugins/creation/custom-provisioners[provisioners].

This Packer plugin structures components as Go packages using the
`components/COMPONENT/NAME` naming convention.

[source,txt]
----
.
└── component
    ├── builder
    │   └── instance
    └── data-source
        └── image
----

Once you've decided on a component go ahead and create its Go package.

[source,sh]
----
mkdir -p component/builder/instance
----

Then implement the interface for the component.

`component/builder/instance/builder.go`
[source,go]
----
package instance

import (
        "context"
        "github.com/hashicorp/hcl/v2/hcldec"
        "github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/packer"
)

var _ packer.Builder = (*Builder)(nil)

type Builder struct{}

func (b *Builder) ConfigSpec() hcldec.ObjectSpec {}

func (b *Builder) Prepare(args ...any) ([]string, []string, error) {}

func (b *Builder) Run(ctx context.Context, ui packer.Ui, hook packer.Hook) (packer.Artifact, error) {}
----

=== Registering a Component

Components must be registered within the Packer plugin before they can be used.

Register a component with a specific name.

`main.go`
[source,go]
----
pluginSet.RegisterBuilder("instance", new(instance.Builder))
----

Do not use `plugin.DEFAULT_NAME` to register a component. Doing so will use
the name `oxide` for the component which is not descriptive enough to describe
the component.

//go:generate packer-sdc mapstructure-to-hcl2 -type Config

=== Generating Component Code

Structs within a component can be configured to generate code to retrieve its
`hcldec.ObjectSpec` using `mapstructure` field tags.

[source,go]
----
type Config struct {
	Name string `mapstructure:"name" required:"true"`
}
----

With the struct tags in place, add the following `go:generate` directive to the
top of the file, below the license text but above the package declaration.

[source,go]
----
//go:generate packer-sdc mapstructure-to-hcl2 -type Config
----

Then run `make generate` to generate the necessary `*.hcl2spec.go` files.

== Describing the Plugin

The plugin binary is not meant to be executed directly. However, there's a
`describe` subcommand that can be used to gather information that's useful
during troubleshooting.

[source,sh]
----
> ./packer-plugin-oxide describe
{
  "version": "0.1.0-dev",
  "sdk_version": "0.6.1",
  "api_version": "x5.0",
  "builders": [
    "instance"
  ],
  "post_processors": [],
  "provisioners": [],
  "datasources": [
    "image"
  ],
  "protocol_version": "v2"
}
----

== Writing Documentation 

Documentation for the plugin and its components is generated from the Markdown
files located in `docs`.

[source,sh]
----
.
└── docs
    ├── builders
    │   └── instance.mdx
    ├── datasources
    │   └── image.mdx
    └── README.md
----

The `docs/README.md` file is the main documentation for the plugin that will
be displayed on its Packer integrations page. Nested directories document each
component.

Within a Markdown file, you might see an `@include` directive. This directive
will pull in content from documentation partials.

[source,txt]
----
@include 'component/builder/instance/Builder.mdx'
----

Documentation partials are generated from Go doc comments on exported types.
The most important exported types to document are the types that implement
component interfaces and the `Config` type, if any.

Add the following `go:generate` directive at the top of any file with exported
types that need to be documented, below the license text but above the package
declaration.

[source,go]
----
//go:generate packer-sdc struct-markdown
----

Then run `make generate` to generate both the `doc-partials` and `.web-docs`
content.

[source,sh]
----
.
├── docs-partials
│   └── component
│       ├── builder
│       │   └── instance
│       │       ├── Builder.mdx
│       │       ├── Config.mdx
│       │       ├── Config-not-required.mdx
│       │       └── Config-required.mdx
│       └── data-source
│           └── image
│               ├── Config.mdx
│               ├── Config-not-required.mdx
│               ├── Config-required.mdx
│               ├── Datasource.mdx
│               └── DatasourceOutput.mdx
└── .web-docs
    ├── components
    │   ├── builder
    │   │   └── instance
    │   │       └── README.md
    │   └── data-source
    │       └── image
    │           └── README.md
    ├── metadata.hcl
    ├── README.md
    └── scripts
        └── compile-to-webdocs.sh
----

The `.web-docs` directory contains the documentation that will be shown on the
Packer integrations page for this plugin. You'll notice its structure matches
the structure of `docs`. The `metadata.hcl` file within describes the plugin and
must be updated when components are added or removed.

=== Documenting Data Source Outputs

The output type for a data source component must be named `DatasourceOutput`
to ensure its documentation partial is correctly generated. This is because
the Packer plugin SDK treats a type named `DatasourceOutput` specially as seen
in the
https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk/blob/7a5a8ab49a63aab6ecd6c54ba71c8e0edb531cf8/cmd/packer-sdc/internal/struct-markdown/struct_markdown.go#L183-L186[source code].

== Running Tests

There are two make targets to run tests for the plugin.

. `make test` will run unit tests.

. `make testacc` will run the acceptance tests. These tests require access to
Oxide and will generally require other `OXIDE_*` make variables. The tests will
log which variables are required and document which resources are dependencies.

== Releasing the Plugin

. Choose the commit that's to be released.

. For `X.Y.0` versions.

.. Create and push a `release-X.Y` branch.

.. Create a Git tag in the format `vX.Y.Z`. This tag should match the value of
`main.Version` for the commit that was chosen.

. Push the `vX.Y.Z` Git tag to the remote.

. Monitor the `Release` GitHub Actions workflow to ensure the plugin has been
successfully built and released.

. Update the release notes for the GitHub release by clearing them out and
clicking the *Generate release notes* button.

On both the `release-X.Y` and default branches, push the following changes.

.. Update the `main.Version` value in `main.go`.

.. Update the `version = ">= X.Y.Z"` version constraint in `docs/README.md`, and
`example/template.pkr.hcl` to use the next development version.

.. Run `make generate` to generate updated documentation.
