docs/builders/instance.mdx, before:

---
description: >
  This builder creates custom images on Oxide. The builder launches a temporary
  instance, connects to it using its external IP, provisions it, and then
  creates an image from the instance's boot disk. The resulting image can be
  used to launch new instances.
page_title: Oxide Instance - Builder
nav_title: oxide-instance
---

# Oxide Instance - Builder

Type: `oxide-instance`

@include 'component/builder/instance/Builder.mdx'

## Configuration

@include 'component/builder/instance/Config.mdx'

### Required

@include 'component/builder/instance/Config-required.mdx'

### Optional

@include 'component/builder/instance/Config-not-required.mdx'

## Examples

Basic build using environment variables for Oxide credentials.

```hcl
source "oxide-instance" "example" {
  project            = "oxide"
  boot_disk_image_id = "feb2c8ee-5a1d-4d66-beeb-289b860561bf"

  ssh_public_keys = [
    "529885a0-2919-463a-a588-ac48f100a165",
  ]

  ssh_username   = "ubuntu"
}

build {
  sources = [
    "source.oxide-instance.example",
  ]

  provisioner "shell" {
    inline = [
      "echo 'Hello from Packer!'",
    ]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

builder(instance): generate temporary ssh key pair (#30)
Added support for generating a temporary SSH key pair when no other
valid SSH communicator configuration is supplied. This allows users
to more easily build images on Oxide since they no longer have to
pre-create an SSH key pair and upload the public key to Oxide.

docs/builders/instance.mdx, after:

---
description: >
  This builder creates custom images on Oxide. The builder launches a temporary
  instance, connects to it using its external IP, provisions it, and then
  creates an image from the instance's boot disk. The resulting image can be
  used to launch new instances.
page_title: Oxide Instance - Builder
nav_title: oxide-instance
---

# Oxide Instance - Builder

Type: `oxide-instance`

@include 'component/builder/instance/Builder.mdx'

## Configuration

@include 'component/builder/instance/Config.mdx'

### Required

@include 'component/builder/instance/Config-required.mdx'

### Optional

@include 'component/builder/instance/Config-not-required.mdx'

## Communicator

In addition to the builder configuration, a
[`communicator`](/docs/communicators) can be configured for this builder.

### SSH

This builder automatically generates a temporary SSH key pair that's used to
connect to the temporary instance unless one of the following SSH communicator
attributes are set.

- [`ssh_password`](/docs/communicators/ssh#ssh_password)
- [`ssh_private_key_file`](/docs/communicators/ssh#ssh_private_key_file)
- [`ssh_agent_auth`](/docs/communicators/ssh#ssh_agent_auth)

The temporary SSH public key is uploaded to Oxide, injected into the emphemeral
instance, and deleted during cleanup. The temporary SSH private key is used by
Packer to connect to the instance.

The name of the temporary SSH public key uploaded to Oxide can be set using the
[`temporary_key_pair_name`](/docs/communicators/ssh#temporary_key_pair_name)
attribute. Generally there's no reason to set this but it's available should it
be necessary.

## Examples

Basic build using environment variables for Oxide credentials and an
automatically generated SSH key pair.

```hcl
source "oxide-instance" "example" {
  project            = "oxide"
  boot_disk_image_id = "feb2c8ee-5a1d-4d66-beeb-289b860561bf"

  # SSH communicator attributes.
  ssh_username = "ubuntu"
}

build {
  sources = [
    "source.oxide-instance.example",
  ]

  provisioner "shell" {
    inline = [
      "echo 'Hello from Packer!'",
    ]
  }
}
```
