docs-partials/component/builder/instance/Config-not-required.mdx, before:

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/builder/instance/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `boot_disk_size` (uint64) - Size of the boot disk in bytes. Defaults to `21474836480`, or 20 GiB.

- `ip_pool` (string) - IP pool to allocate the instance's external IP from. If not specified, the
  silo's default IP pool will be used.

- `vpc` (string) - VPC to create the instance within. Defaults to `default`.

- `subnet` (string) - Subnet to create the instance within. Defaults to `default`.

- `name` (string) - Name of the temporary instance. Defaults to `packer-{{timestamp}}`.

- `hostname` (string) - Hostname of the temporary instance. Defaults to `packer-{{timestamp}}`.

- `cpus` (uint64) - Number of vCPUs to provision the instance with. Defaults to `1`.

- `memory` (uint64) - Amount of memory to provision the instance with, in bytes. Defaults to
  `2147483648`, or 2 GiB.

- `ssh_public_keys` ([]string) - An array of names or IDs of SSH public keys to inject into the instance.

- `artifact_name` (string) - Name of the resulting image artifact. Defaults to `packer-{{timestamp}}`.

- `artifact_version` (string) - Version of the resulting image artifact. Defaults to `packer-{{timestamp}}`.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/builder/instance/config.go; -->

Commit message:

builder(instance): set artifact information from source image (#36)
Added a new step to fetch the source image information so that it can be
used to set defaults for the resulting image artifact. This allows users
to omit all of the `artifact_*` configuration arguments if desired.

docs-partials/component/builder/instance/Config-not-required.mdx, after:

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/builder/instance/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `boot_disk_size` (uint64) - Size of the boot disk in bytes. Defaults to `21474836480`, or 20 GiB.

- `ip_pool` (string) - IP pool to allocate the instance's external IP from. If not specified, the
  silo's default IP pool will be used.

- `vpc` (string) - VPC to create the instance within. Defaults to `default`.

- `subnet` (string) - Subnet to create the instance within. Defaults to `default`.

- `name` (string) - Name of the temporary instance. Defaults to `packer-{{timestamp}}`.

- `hostname` (string) - Hostname of the temporary instance. Defaults to `packer-{{timestamp}}`.

- `cpus` (uint64) - Number of vCPUs to provision the instance with. Defaults to `1`.

- `memory` (uint64) - Amount of memory to provision the instance with, in bytes. Defaults to
  `2147483648`, or 2 GiB.

- `ssh_public_keys` ([]string) - An array of names or IDs of SSH public keys to inject into the instance.

- `artifact_name` (string) - Name of the resulting image artifact. Defaults to
  `SOURCE_IMAGE_NAME-{{timestamp}}` where `SOURCE_IMAGE_NAME` is the name of
  the source image as retrieved from Oxide.

- `artifact_os` (string) - Operating system of the resulting image artifact. Defaults to the OS of the
  source image as retrieved from Oxide.

- `artifact_version` (string) - Version of the resulting image artifact. Defaults to
  `SOURCE_IMAGE_VERSION-{{timestamp}}` where `SOURCE_IMAGE_VERSION` is the
  version of the source image as retrieved from Oxide.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/builder/instance/config.go; -->
