.web-docs/components/data-source/image/README.md, before:

Type: `oxide-image`

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Datasource struct in component/data-source/image/data_source.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

The `oxide-image` data source fetches [Oxide](https://oxide.computer) image
information for use in a Packer build. The image can be a project image or
silo image.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Datasource struct in component/data-source/image/data_source.go; -->


## Configuration

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

The configuration arguments for the data source. Arguments can either be
required or optional.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; -->


### Required

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `host` (string) - Oxide API URL (e.g., `https://oxide.sys.example.com`). If not specified, this
  defaults to the value of the `OXIDE_HOST` environment variable.

- `token` (string) - Oxide API token. If not specified, this defaults to the value of the
  `OXIDE_TOKEN` environment variable.

- `name` (string) - Name of the image to fetch.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; -->


### Optional

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `project` (string) - Name or ID of the project containing the image to fetch. Leave blank to fetch
  a silo image instead of a project image.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; -->


## Outputs

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the DatasourceOutput struct in component/data-source/image/output.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `image_id` (string) - ID of the image that was fetched.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the DatasourceOutput struct in component/data-source/image/output.go; -->


## Examples

Fetch a project image.

```hcl
data "oxide-image" "example" {
  name    = "ubuntu"
  project = "oxide"
}
```

Fetch a silo image.

```hcl
data "oxide-image" "example" {
  name = "ubuntu"
}
```

Commit message:

feat: support credentials profiles (#48)
Updated both the `instance` builder and `image` data source to
support Oxide credentials profiles via the `profile` argument and the
`OXIDE_PROFILE` environment variable.

Closes https://github.com/oxidecomputer/packer-plugin-oxide/issues/47.

.web-docs/components/data-source/image/README.md, after:

Type: `oxide-image`

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Datasource struct in component/data-source/image/data_source.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

The `oxide-image` data source fetches [Oxide](https://oxide.computer) image
information for use in a Packer build. The image can be a project image or
silo image.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Datasource struct in component/data-source/image/data_source.go; -->


## Configuration

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

The configuration arguments for the data source. Arguments can either be
required or optional.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; -->


### Required

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `name` (string) - Name of the image to fetch.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; -->


### Optional

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `host` (string) - Oxide API URL (e.g., `https://oxide.sys.example.com`). If not specified,
  this defaults to the value of the `OXIDE_HOST` environment variable. When
  specified, `token` must be specified. Conflicts with `profile`.

- `token` (string) - Oxide API token. If not specified, this defaults to the value of the
  `OXIDE_TOKEN` environment variable. When specified, `host` must be specified.
  Conflicts with `profile`.

- `profile` (string) - Oxide credentials profile. If not specified, this defaults to the value of
  the `OXIDE_PROFILE` environment variable. Conflicts with `host` and `token`.

- `project` (string) - Name or ID of the project containing the image to fetch. Leave blank to fetch
  a silo image instead of a project image.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in component/data-source/image/config.go; -->


## Outputs

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the DatasourceOutput struct in component/data-source/image/output.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `image_id` (string) - ID of the image that was fetched.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the DatasourceOutput struct in component/data-source/image/output.go; -->


## Examples

Fetch a project image.

```hcl
data "oxide-image" "example" {
  name    = "ubuntu"
  project = "oxide"
}
```

Fetch a silo image.

```hcl
data "oxide-image" "example" {
  name = "ubuntu"
}
```
